My great grandfather's great grandfather spoke of the tales of the great water smoke, the mist. 
They worshiped as God out of fear and after generations become accustomed to worship. Any who 
dared to challenge the mist would surely perish yet my great grandfather's great grandfather's 
great grandfather Toldoth was not like the rest, he dared to challenge the mist. His story begins 
in Dia Lando, The Land Of God, 200 years ago. It started out with small skirmishes on the edges 
of town conducted by him and fellow rebels against the mist's forces. After many successful 
battles against the mist all of the rebels decided to have a banquet, through the day they 
feasted but through the night they slept within this tent. This provided the only chance the 
mist may have had left to defeat the rebels, so on this fateful day the mist itself would appear
to finish the rebellion. These soliders could only imagine the terror that awaited them. Hours
passed and all but one slept, for Toldoth is not a fool that would ever leave him and his 
comrades defenseless. Slowly through that night the mist creeped ever so closer, until the
room became engulfed. Toldoth tried to awaken all but none woke, they could be dead but lying
on the ground they're probably just unconscious. For no one has faced the mist and lived to tell
the tale but we do know the mist attacks only at night, our protagonist cared so much he would
sacrifice his own life, for he knew what was right. He must stop the mist at any cost to himself. 
Approaching Toldoth, the mist could never have guessed what he was planning. Toldoth, determined
to hault the mist's advance to save everyone, faces the mist head on. As it begins to attack 
Toldoth knows at least enough not to breath in the mist, he tirelessly evades the mist all 
night. If the mist waits tile night to attack, night must serve some purpose or be necessary
to attack. As morning comes the mist attempts to flee, this is the chance Toldoth has been 
waiting for. He seals the tent with all his might, the mist keeps leaking out, burning him. 
At this rate he'll die, it's already peeling off the skin on his hands, but what man would 
value himself over so many. By morning his hand are glued to the tents exit with blood and
molten skin, without a second thought he rips off his hands for they are brittle from the beating.
With his last ounces of life he uses his teeth to pull down the tent, but he isn't strong enough
after the night of fighting. With all the blood pouring out of the nubs that we're once his hands
he'll die before he can pull it down. He spots a deadly scorpion on the ground that he knows have
adrenaline in it's venom, he's going to die either way so he stabs himself. Feeling the adrenaline
rushing through him coupled with the immense pain of the poison he was screaming in agony. 
Determined not to die in vain, he gets up and begins to tear sacrificing himself. As the tent
falls the mist struggles to stay out of the sun, Toldoth knew this would happen so he dug a whole
in advance to imprison the mist for an eternity. The people of Dia Lando slowly begin to realise
they're so called "God" was nothing more than monster and rejoice now that they are freed of the
superstition and tyriany. Toldoth lies dead on the ground without anyone knowing his story but
those that were there.

The History Of The Mist
Part 1
Version 1


Notes: I wrote this in response to a comment as a joke on the youtube video https://youtu.be/GjcOobt9Ef8,
titled "Can You Boil Water Just By Mixing it Really Fast? Water-Stirring Challenge Accepted!" by
"The Action Lab", the comment itself read "Water smoke, don't breathe this!" by user "Weltnarok".
I made a tweak to one line from the original comment but other than changing the wording of that
this is identical to the original comment I posted.
